README.md, before:

# Documentation

## Description and Architecture

This module was created to simplify configuring logging collecting and aggregation using [Vector](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector) with intermediate cache in AWS S3 and final destination in AWS OpenSearch (former ElasticSearch).

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opsworks-co/vector-eks-s3-opensearch/master/.github/images/diagram.svg" alt="Architectural diagram" width="100%">
</p>

In the above diagram, you can see the components and their relations.

##### Resources you need to provide (pre-requisitions)

- **OpenSearch cluster** where **Vector Aggregator** will ingest processed logs.
- **Secrets Manager Secret** with `vector_username` and `vector_password`, which will be used as Basic Auth credentials to **OpenSearch cluster**. See the [TODO](#TODO) section.
- **EKS cluster** where **Vector Agent** and **Vector Aggregator** will be deployed.

##### Resources created by the module

- Two components will be installed into the existing **EKS cluster** using the Helm chart:
  - **Vector Agent**, as DaemonSet, collects logs and metrics from the node (including application logs) and sends them to the **S3 bucket** using the ServiceAccount and connected IAM Role. It has been done to decouple logs collecting as far as our **OpenSearch cluster** can be in the maintenance or overloaded, but we don't want to miss any logs. **S3 bucket** is cheap and reliable storage, we are using it as a buffer.
  - **Vector Aggregator**, as StatefullSet, which reads the **SQS queue** for new logs, gets them from the **S3 bucket**, processes, enriches, and sends them to the **OpenSearch cluster**.
- **S3 bucket** has lifecycle policy and stores logs for a period of time (7 days by default). It has notifications configured on CreateObject event routed to the SQS queue. Resource policy restricts access to the bucket only to **Vector Agent IAM Role** and **Vector Aggregator IAM Role**.
- **SQS queue**, as destination for S3 CreateObject notifications used by the **Vector Aggregator** to get information about logs messages that has to be processed.
- **Vector Agent IAM Role** and **Vector Aggregator IAM Role** created to provide granular access to the AWS resources.

## Explanation of some architectural decisions

- The **S3 bucket** is used as temporary storage here to not lose any logs in a case when the **OpenSearch cluster** is in the "Red health status". Messages wait in the **SQS queue** for later processing. When logs are ingested into the **OpenSearch cluster**, we remove the message from the **SQS queue**.
- When we have multiple AWS accounts (one per environment), we are using a single **OpenSearch cluster**. We believe that the **Vector Aggregator** must be part of each cluster where logs are generated so we can test changes of the **Vector Aggregator** configuration in the lower environments before promoting them to the Production.

## TODO

- Provide by default access to the **OpenSearch Cluster** using the **Vector Aggregator IAM Role** instead of the basic auth. To implement this we need to figure out how to use cross-account access to the **OpenSearch Cluster** with IAM Role via the Cluster Endpoint.
- Update module to ingest custom variables into the helm chart with [helm provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs) using [`set_sensitive`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release#set_sensitive) to mark sensitive values, which should not be exposed to the output.

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.0 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 5.0.0 |
| <a name="requirement_helm"></a> [helm](#requirement\_helm) | >= 2.11.0 |
| <a name="requirement_utils"></a> [utils](#requirement\_utils) | >= 1.12.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 5.32.1 |
| <a name="provider_helm"></a> [helm](#provider\_helm) | 2.12.1 |
| <a name="provider_utils"></a> [utils](#provider\_utils) | 1.14.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_vector_agent_role"></a> [vector\_agent\_role](#module\_vector\_agent\_role) | terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc | v5.33.0 |
| <a name="module_vector_aggregator_role"></a> [vector\_aggregator\_role](#module\_vector\_aggregator\_role) | terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc | v5.33.0 |
| <a name="module_vector_s3_bucket"></a> [vector\_s3\_bucket](#module\_vector\_s3\_bucket) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws | 3.15.1 |
| <a name="module_vector_sqs"></a> [vector\_sqs](#module\_vector\_sqs) | terraform-aws-modules/sqs/aws | 4.1.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_iam_policy.vector_agent](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy.vector_aggregator](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_s3_bucket_notification.object_created](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_bucket_notification) | resource |
| [helm_release.vector_agent](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release) | resource |
| [helm_release.vector_aggregator](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release) | resource |
| [aws_eks_cluster.eks](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/eks_cluster) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.s3_bucket_policy](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.vector_agent](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.vector_aggregator](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |
| [aws_secretsmanager_secret.opensearch_credentials](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/secretsmanager_secret) | data source |
| [aws_secretsmanager_secret_version.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/secretsmanager_secret_version) | data source |
| [utils_deep_merge_yaml.values_agent_merged](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudposse/utils/latest/docs/data-sources/deep_merge_yaml) | data source |
| [utils_deep_merge_yaml.values_aggregator_merged](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudposse/utils/latest/docs/data-sources/deep_merge_yaml) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_agent_template_filename"></a> [agent\_template\_filename](#input\_agent\_template\_filename) | Filename with custom agent configuration. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_agent_template_variables"></a> [agent\_template\_variables](#input\_agent\_template\_variables) | By default agent template has following variables: `region`, `bucket`, and `cluster_name`. Module replaces them inside automatically. If you defined additional variables in the template provided via `agent_template_filename` you need to provide values for them here. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_agent_values_override"></a> [agent\_values\_override](#input\_agent\_values\_override) | Overrides or extend the Agent Helm default values and/or thouse provided in the custom template `agent_template_filename`. | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_aggregator_template_filename"></a> [aggregator\_template\_filename](#input\_aggregator\_template\_filename) | Filename with custom aggregator configuration. | `string` | `"aggregator.yaml"` | no |
| <a name="input_aggregator_template_variables"></a> [aggregator\_template\_variables](#input\_aggregator\_template\_variables) | By default aggregator template has following variables: `queue_url`, `user`, `password`, `endpoint`, `region`, and `eks_cluster_name`. Module replaces them inside automatically. If you defined additional variables in the template provided via `aggregator_template_filename` you need to provide values for them here. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_aggregator_values_override"></a> [aggregator\_values\_override](#input\_aggregator\_values\_override) | Overrides or extend the Aggregator Helm values provided in the custom template `aggregator_template_filename`. | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_eks_cluster_name"></a> [eks\_cluster\_name](#input\_eks\_cluster\_name) | Name of the EKS cluster where Vector going to be installed. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_elasticsearch_endpoint"></a> [elasticsearch\_endpoint](#input\_elasticsearch\_endpoint) | Endpoint of OpenSearch (ElasticSearch) to which we are sending logs in format `https://elasticsearch.example.com:443`. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_helm_chart_config"></a> [helm\_chart\_config](#input\_helm\_chart\_config) | Helm chart config. Applies to both agent and aggregator. See https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name) | Name or prefix for resources that will be created. | `string` | `"vector"` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_bucket_name"></a> [s3\_bucket\_name](#input\_s3\_bucket\_name) | By default S3 bucket name generates as `$var.name-$var.eks_cluster_name-logs`. You can override it here by providing custom name. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_bucket_policy"></a> [s3\_bucket\_policy](#input\_s3\_bucket\_policy) | By default we are creating the least priviledgies S3 bucket policy (limited access only for `Agent IAM Role` and `Aggregator IAM Role`). You can override it by providing S3 bucket policy JSON document here. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_expiration_days"></a> [s3\_expiration\_days](#input\_s3\_expiration\_days) | How many days keep log files in S3 bucket. | `number` | `7` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_force_destroy"></a> [s3\_force\_destroy](#input\_s3\_force\_destroy) | A boolean that indicates all objects should be deleted from the bucket first to destroy the bucket without error. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_secret_name"></a> [secret\_name](#input\_secret\_name) | Secret which contains `vector_username` and `vector_password` we are using to perform Basic Authenification in OpenSearch (ElasticSearch). | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | A mapping of tags to assign to the resources. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_vector_s3_bucket_id"></a> [vector\_s3\_bucket\_id](#output\_vector\_s3\_bucket\_id) | S3 bucket created to store logs before they parsed |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

Commit message:

- Masked as sensitive basic_auth credentials - Bump S3 module version - Separated examples for basic_auth and iam_auth - Simplified aggregator.yaml examples - Updated diagram

README.md, after:

# Documentation

## Description and Architecture

This module was created to simplify configuring logging collecting and aggregation using [Vector](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector) with intermediate cache in AWS S3 and final destination in AWS OpenSearch (former ElasticSearch).

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opsworks-co/vector-eks-s3-opensearch/master/.github/images/diagram.svg" alt="Architectural diagram" width="100%">
</p>

In the above diagram, you can see the components and their relations.

##### Resources you need to provide (pre-requisitions)

- **OpenSearch cluster** where **Vector Aggregator** will ingest processed logs.
- **Secrets Manager Secret** with `vector_username` and `vector_password`, which will be used as Basic Auth credentials to **OpenSearch cluster**. This is optional, if not provided Vector Aggregator will use IAM Role for put data into OpenSearch. If you accessing OpenSearch cluster via VPN Endpoint make sure you provided appropriate host name via the Header. See example in `examples/iam-auth-opensearch`.
- **EKS cluster** where **Vector Agent** and **Vector Aggregator** will be deployed.

##### Resources created by the module

- Two components will be installed into the existing **EKS cluster** using the Helm chart:
  - **Vector Agent**, as DaemonSet, collects logs and metrics from the node (including application logs) and sends them to the **S3 bucket** using the ServiceAccount and connected IAM Role. It has been done to decouple logs collecting as far as our **OpenSearch cluster** can be in the maintenance or overloaded, but we don't want to miss any logs. **S3 bucket** is cheap and reliable storage, we are using it as a buffer.
  - **Vector Aggregator**, as StatefullSet, which reads the **SQS queue** for new logs, gets them from the **S3 bucket**, processes, enriches, and sends them to the **OpenSearch cluster**.
- **S3 bucket** has lifecycle policy and stores logs for a period of time (7 days by default). It has notifications configured on CreateObject event routed to the SQS queue. Resource policy restricts access to the bucket only to **Vector Agent IAM Role** and **Vector Aggregator IAM Role**.
- **SQS queue**, as destination for S3 CreateObject notifications used by the **Vector Aggregator** to get information about logs messages that has to be processed.
- **Vector Agent IAM Role** and **Vector Aggregator IAM Role** created to provide granular access to the AWS resources.

## Explanation of some architectural decisions

- The **S3 bucket** is used as temporary storage here to not lose any logs in a case when the **OpenSearch cluster** is in the "Red health status". Messages wait in the **SQS queue** for later processing. When logs are ingested into the **OpenSearch cluster**, we remove the message from the **SQS queue**.
- When we have multiple AWS accounts (one per environment), we are using a single **OpenSearch cluster**. We believe that the **Vector Aggregator** must be part of each cluster where logs are generated so we can test changes of the **Vector Aggregator** configuration in the lower environments before promoting them to the Production.

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.0 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 5.0.0 |
| <a name="requirement_helm"></a> [helm](#requirement\_helm) | >= 2.11.0 |
| <a name="requirement_utils"></a> [utils](#requirement\_utils) | >= 1.12.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 5.33.0 |
| <a name="provider_helm"></a> [helm](#provider\_helm) | 2.12.1 |
| <a name="provider_utils"></a> [utils](#provider\_utils) | 1.15.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_vector_agent_role"></a> [vector\_agent\_role](#module\_vector\_agent\_role) | terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc | v5.33.0 |
| <a name="module_vector_aggregator_role"></a> [vector\_aggregator\_role](#module\_vector\_aggregator\_role) | terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-assumable-role-with-oidc | v5.33.0 |
| <a name="module_vector_s3_bucket"></a> [vector\_s3\_bucket](#module\_vector\_s3\_bucket) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws | 4.0.1 |
| <a name="module_vector_sqs"></a> [vector\_sqs](#module\_vector\_sqs) | terraform-aws-modules/sqs/aws | 4.1.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_iam_policy.vector_agent](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy.vector_aggregator](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_s3_bucket_notification.object_created](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_bucket_notification) | resource |
| [helm_release.vector_agent](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release) | resource |
| [helm_release.vector_aggregator](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs/resources/release) | resource |
| [aws_eks_cluster.eks](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/eks_cluster) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.s3_bucket_policy](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.vector_agent](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.vector_aggregator](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |
| [aws_secretsmanager_secret.opensearch_credentials](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/secretsmanager_secret) | data source |
| [aws_secretsmanager_secret_version.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/secretsmanager_secret_version) | data source |
| [utils_deep_merge_yaml.values_agent_merged](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudposse/utils/latest/docs/data-sources/deep_merge_yaml) | data source |
| [utils_deep_merge_yaml.values_aggregator_merged](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudposse/utils/latest/docs/data-sources/deep_merge_yaml) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_agent_template_filename"></a> [agent\_template\_filename](#input\_agent\_template\_filename) | Filename with custom agent configuration. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_agent_template_variables"></a> [agent\_template\_variables](#input\_agent\_template\_variables) | By default agent template has following variables: `region`, `bucket`, and `cluster_name`. Module replaces them inside automatically. If you defined additional variables in the template provided via `agent_template_filename` you need to provide values for them here. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_agent_values_override"></a> [agent\_values\_override](#input\_agent\_values\_override) | Overrides or extend the Agent Helm default values and/or thouse provided in the custom template `agent_template_filename`. | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_aggregator_template_filename"></a> [aggregator\_template\_filename](#input\_aggregator\_template\_filename) | Filename with custom aggregator configuration. | `string` | `"aggregator.yaml"` | no |
| <a name="input_aggregator_template_variables"></a> [aggregator\_template\_variables](#input\_aggregator\_template\_variables) | By default aggregator template has following variables: `queue_url`, `endpoint`, `region`, and `eks_cluster_name`. Module replaces them inside automatically. If you defined additional variables in the template provided via `aggregator_template_filename` you need to provide values for them here. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_aggregator_values_override"></a> [aggregator\_values\_override](#input\_aggregator\_values\_override) | Overrides or extend the Aggregator Helm values provided in the custom template `aggregator_template_filename`. | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_eks_cluster_name"></a> [eks\_cluster\_name](#input\_eks\_cluster\_name) | Name of the EKS cluster where Vector going to be installed. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_elasticsearch_endpoint"></a> [elasticsearch\_endpoint](#input\_elasticsearch\_endpoint) | Endpoint of OpenSearch (ElasticSearch) to which we are sending logs in format `https://elasticsearch.example.com:443`. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_helm_chart_config"></a> [helm\_chart\_config](#input\_helm\_chart\_config) | Helm chart config. Applies to both agent and aggregator. See https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name) | Name or prefix for resources that will be created. | `string` | `"vector"` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_bucket_name"></a> [s3\_bucket\_name](#input\_s3\_bucket\_name) | By default S3 bucket name generates as `$var.name-$var.eks_cluster_name-logs`. You can override it here by providing custom name. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_bucket_policy"></a> [s3\_bucket\_policy](#input\_s3\_bucket\_policy) | By default we are creating the least priviledgies S3 bucket policy (limited access only for `Agent IAM Role` and `Aggregator IAM Role`). You can override it by providing S3 bucket policy JSON document here. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_expiration_days"></a> [s3\_expiration\_days](#input\_s3\_expiration\_days) | How many days keep log files in S3 bucket. | `number` | `7` | no |
| <a name="input_s3_force_destroy"></a> [s3\_force\_destroy](#input\_s3\_force\_destroy) | A boolean that indicates all objects should be deleted from the bucket first to destroy the bucket without error. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_secret_name"></a> [secret\_name](#input\_secret\_name) | Secret which contains `vector_username` and `vector_password` we are using to perform Basic Authenification in OpenSearch (ElasticSearch). | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | A mapping of tags to assign to the resources. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_vector_agent_role"></a> [vector\_agent\_role](#output\_vector\_agent\_role) | IAM Role ARN created for Vector agent |
| <a name="output_vector_aggregator_role"></a> [vector\_aggregator\_role](#output\_vector\_aggregator\_role) | IAM Role ARN created for Vector aggregator |
| <a name="output_vector_s3_bucket_id"></a> [vector\_s3\_bucket\_id](#output\_vector\_s3\_bucket\_id) | S3 bucket created to store logs before they parsed |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
